Okay, we have tape throwing on this end. Let's start off. How much time do we
have first? As much as you want. Oh, wow. Okay. We've got a rough cut at 4 o
'clock, so we've got 55 minutes. That should be plenty of time. First, why don't
we start off with how did this project get started? Project got started, I was
doing a half-hour situation comedy two years ago. I did the first two hours,
first four episodes of the sitcom, and was fired by Warner Brothers after the
show became a hit in the grand show business tradition. So I went surfing, and I
was sitting on the beach the next day. It was just about two years ago, and
decided to write a show that if it ever got on the air, I would watch it. That
was the basis of it, that I wanted to do something that I would watch, that I
thought would be fun to see. And I started to kick around various elements of
different things that I had liked and different things that appealed to me and
that I was interested in. And it was a combination of things, from the movie
Butch and Sundance and Star Wars and Raiders, which were all very hot. And my
kids were heavily into Dungeons and Dragons and video games and stuff like that.
And I thought of doing a medieval version, something that looked medieval, a
medieval version of Butch and Sundance, essentially. That is, characters who are
set in what appears to be an historical setting who have contemporary
sensibilities. And that was the beginning of it. That was the first germ of what
became Greystone's Odyssey, which was the name of the show until last fall. And
I took these various notions over to a friend of mine at CBS, who was in charge
of ordering scripts, and he responded to it right away. And what I did was then
started to create a world. I created a world, a planet called Camerand, and set
all the action of this show on the continent of Aperans. Now, for my way of
thinking, for all my staff and for everybody who's written it, the planet of
Camerand is Earth 500 million years in the future, post-technology. And it has
returned to, through an evolutionary process, what we know of as historically as
the medieval times. But with twist. There are a lot of mutants. There is a
holdover technology, which is controlled by the wizards, who have access to the
book, which is the source of knowledge and power. And that's basically what the
framework is. Now, on the continent of Aperans, within that framework, there
is a war taking place between the forces of the North and the forces of the
South. The forces of the North being represented by Prince Dirk Blackpool, the
bad guy, and the forces of the South being represented by Prince Eric Greystone.
That's essentially what happened.
Okay.
How far have you gotten into production? We shot a pilot last year. CBS saw that
and ordered seven additional episodes. I completed filming the eighth episode
about two weeks ago, and we're in post-production now. Okay. Then it's
pretty well along. Do you have any projected air date? We will go on the air
Saturday, March the 5th at 8 o'clock on CBS. Yes. Okay. I thought I saw
something. CBS runs the gizmos where they say, you know, here's what's coming
next month. And I thought I saw something that dealt with your program on there,
but it was like a two-second micro blitz of a guy with a sword that was glowing,
and he whooped around, and then it was off. It's amazing that you actually saw
that. I saw it, too. I was skiing last week. I had no idea they were going to do
that. There are two little clips, probably, it's almost subliminal, from an
episode called The Rescue, where the wizard Vector, well, this shows everything.
It's so complicated. Prince Eric Greystone is hanging, dangling at the end of a
chain over a slime pit, which contains a slime monster. And the wizard Vector
sends this laser beam to the top of the chain, which heats the chain, and the
heat begins to descend until it touches his hands, and he has to let go and fall
into the pit. You saw the casting of that beam and the slow-motion shot of
Greystone falling towards the water.
I knew it wasn't from any show that I had seen previously, and I knew it wasn't
a cut from Star Wars, which CBS is hoping to show, so I knew it probably had to
be your show. Well, that's very observant of you. Yeah, this show does not look
like anything you have ever seen on television. I guarantee you that. It is
very, very different. It's quite an adventure. Why don't you go into explaining
a little bit of what the differences are? Well, everything is different. First
of all, it breaks all the rules. You're not supposed to do period pieces on
television. They don't work. Well, this isn't really a period piece, but it
looks like one when you first see it. It's heavily costumed, the show is. It
deals with fantasy, which outside of Star Trek has not been very successful.
There's a lot of science fiction overtones to it. It is episodic,
but it's also a serial in the way that MASH is. You know, the war is the
overriding thing, so each episode doesn't wrap up a problem neatly. It is shot
with fog filters and half corals, which gives it a very storybook look. Nothing
else on television does that. Everything about it is different. I just, it's
very hard to explain. There's humor in it, and yet people die. There are no
jokes, but it's very funny.
I can't think of anything that even compares to it. Did I read correctly that
you made some references to MASH? Are there some of the writers from MASH
working on the show? I produced MASH in 1975-76 along with Burt Metcalf and Alan
Katz, and I did 26 episodes of it. Nobody else on my staff worked on MASH. Okay,
that's where I remember seeing your name. I'm a big MASH fan. Uh-huh. Okay. You
mentioned something about the effects. Does the show have quite a bit of special
effects in it then? Yeah. One of the episodes, just looking at it today, called
The Kidnap, has a special effect in every scene. It's an enormous amount of
special effects, matte work, beam splitters, opticals, rotoscoping, a lot of it.
It's a very, very expensive endeavor. I was just thinking, it must be pretty
expensive to produce then. It's enormously expensive. It's the most expensive
series that CBS has ever commissioned. It's a gamble. They should be commended
for taking this gamble. I mean, for all the people who are fantasy and science
fiction fans, they should write a thank you note to CBS, because I don't know
anybody else in television who would have attempted this. Yeah. Yeah, after ABC
had a lot of hopes for Battlestar Galactica, if you remember when that came on.
Yeah. And the effects were just fantastic, but the writing just kind of fell
off, and the show didn't hold up from the writing end of it. Yeah, you've got to
start with solid scripts, solid characters, and hope that people respond to that
first. Because as far as dazzling people with special effects, you know, you go
to the movies and you're going to see $20 million special effects. So we're not
going to show anything that hasn't been seen before in films, but we have
characters that no one's ever seen before in an interesting situation, I think.
The classic situation, it's good against evil. Yeah, I'm a big fan of fantasy
myself. Read a lot. Play Dungeons and Dragons. Oh, her.
But what, if you can, what is the market that you're aiming at? George Lucas
once said that Star Wars was designed for kids or anybody who's ever been one.
You know, I think that's the market that I want. They're putting it on at 8 o
'clock, so it's a highly visual show, so hopefully it'll attract a young
audience. But I think young adults and even not-so-young adults will respond to
it because it can be viewed on different levels. When you have as broad a canvas
as we have, you have the possibility, the opportunity to do parables. And
everything is structured on various levels. You can interpret the stories, the
lines, on a sophisticated adult level, or you can just go straight ahead with
the story and look at the monsters and the power swords.
I think it will appeal to a lot of people, or it will appeal to no one. This
show is either a rocket or a bomb. One or the other. It's not in between. I
happen to like it. Okay. Yeah, I have, if I can express my own personal opinion
here, I really have hoped for a fantasy or science fiction show, you know, a
really good one to come on, and they seem to have been lacking. Do you have any
opinions as to why that might be? Yeah, everything out here is done by
committee. Once you start with an idea, you can have a pure idea, a great idea.
And you take it to one of the networks and you pitch it to a person at a
network, and that person makes changes along with his assistants, and they all
make changes because it's their money in the end. And then his boss will make
changes, and then his boss will make changes. And then you go into, if you're
working with a studio like I am, the studio will request changes. Actors then
request changes. Directors make changes, and it never stops. There's always
groups of people who have input, and the net effect is you end up with a watered
-down property. You know, I see things on the air, and I say, my God, that's a
great idea, but the execution is so bad. And then I remember how this town works
and realize why very few things come through with clarity and purity, and it's
because of interference. With Wizards and Warriors, I was extraordinarily
fortunate in the gentleman at CVS that I first told the idea to said, go ahead.
Within 30 seconds, it was an incredible meeting, and all his assistants were
dumbfounded. He understood it, and he has shepherded the project. He shares the
vision of the project with me. His name is Kim LaMasters, incidentally. And he
has shepherded it through all this complicated process of writing and making
pilots and then writing episodes and making them, and all the pitfalls have been
avoided. The show is exactly as I conceived it initially that day on the beach,
maybe better. And that's the first time I've ever experienced that sort of thing
in this business. Yeah, I know how difficult that must have been because of the
convoluted process that things get from the idea stage to the actual finished
product. We managed to avoid all of it. All right.
Did I understand you that you do some or all or a lot of the writing? I wrote,
let's see, I wrote four of the eight shows. The co-executive producer, Judith
Allison, wrote one. A fellow named Bill Richmond wrote two of them. A fellow
named Robert Earle wrote one. And those are the eight that are going on here.
Okay. Could you give me a brief rundown of how the script writing process goes?
Yes. When we're working in production and I have a staff, as I did starting last
July, there's me, Judith Allison, Bill Richmond, Robert Earle, and another
wonderful writer named Paul Edwards. We all get in a room and sit down and start
to talk about stories, possible stories. And when we seize on an idea that
everybody agrees on, we start to work out the story, break it down into four
acts, and then take one scene at a time. The first scene is this, the second
scene is this, so on and so forth. The end of the first act is this.
All the way through it until we have a completed story. And somebody
takes notes. I get those notes. I get on the phone with the network, in this
case CBS, and tell them the story. If they accept the story, we then go ahead to
first draft, which is one individual writer will go ahead and write a complete
first draft. We then take the first draft and in-house sit down and read it out
loud. We split up the parts. Everybody will play a character. And we actually do
the play, as it were, in my office here. That's a system that Gene Reynolds
instituted and maybe initiated on MASH. And I found it to be very successful
because then you're not hearing these lines for the first time and you don't
have an actor say, my God, I can't say that. It's awful. Because you've already
said it. The answer can always be, well, I can say it if you can't. And we do it
that way. And the result of that meeting becomes the second draft, which is then
sent to the network for their comments, suggested changes, and standards and
practices, obviously, will take out anything that they find objectionable or ask
us to take it out. A lot of arguments there. And that's basically how it works
when you're in production.
Yeah, okay. He's done a whole bunch of stuff. Looks like a prince. His sidekick
is a guy named Walter Olkewicz, who had a series called The Last Resort a few
years back. Very funny, very talented guy. Greystone's brother, Justin
Greystone, is played by a guy named Jay Kerr, who is from Texas, relative
newcomer. He's also a regular on The Young and the Restless, I think. Yeah, The
Young and the Restless. Those are the good guys. Also on the good guys' side is
the wizard, Traquill, who's played by an actor named Ian Wolfe, who is probably
the oldest living man on Earth. I'm not sure how old Ian is. Somewhere around
100. The King, King Baaldorf, who's the king of the threatened country in the
South, is played by Tom Hill. And his wife, Queen Lattinia, is played by Julie
Payne. And the Princess Ariel is played by Julia Duffy. She's absolutely
fabulous. You're going to love her. She was just in The Blue and the Gray. She
was the romantic lead for Stacey Keach in that. On the bad guy's side, Prince
Blackpool is played by an actor named Duncan Regehr, who is going to be on the
cover of People magazine in April. Basically, the character of Prince Dirk
Blackpool is... My concept was to write Darth Vader and to cast an extremely
good-looking guy. And the combination is devastating. The evil wizard, Vector,
is played by Clive Revill. And the witch, Bethel, is played by Randi Brooks. And
there's another Blackpool brother, Jeffrey Blackpool, who appears occasionally,
is played by Tim Dunigan, who was on a show last night called The 18th. A movie
that was on NBC. And that's the cast. Yeah, I saw a team last night. Was he the
one they called Face? That's him. Ah, yes. In fact, I was going to remark a
while ago, but I didn't want to sidetrack what we were doing. Canal got by the
closest word I've ever heard to getting... He said, mudsucker. Yeah. I've never
heard anybody get closer. That's a great game we play out here. I love it. Yeah,
I think the worst pun I ever heard was Jim Henson's thing he's doing on Home Box
Office. The lead character's name is Traveling Matt. That's got to be the worst
pun I've heard. Oh, I've heard worse than that.
What do you think are the possibilities for a run on the show? Like I said, it's
a rocket or a bomb. I don't know. So, it's very different. It's unique. You
know, it's all the things that people say television isn't. I don't know if
anybody's going to like it. You know, you get tunnel vision, at least I do, when
I get involved in a project this deeply. It's been two years now. You lose
objectivity. And the best you can do is cling to your initial idea and the
excitement that that idea generated and try and stay true to that. Whether or
not anybody else will like it, I absolutely don't know. But if they do, it'll be
in large numbers. But if they don't, you'll never hear of me again. Well, I
certainly hope that's not true. No, that's not true. Let's see. I think I've
basically covered all the questions that I wrote down here. Is there anything
else that you would have to say about it?
I don't know. You know, it's really even difficult for me to talk about this
show because it is an amalgam of so many different things. It has become
something of its own, you know. So, it's very exciting. It's fun. And it's fast.
I just hope a lot of people watch it. Okay, right. I can tell you that I'll be
glued to my tube with my videotape recorder doing March the 5th. So will I.
You'll get to see it a couple hours before I do, though. Oh, yeah, that's right.
We're a couple hours ahead of y'all there. But you will have seen it previous to
that, I'm sure, a few times. Yeah, I've seen one of the shows 106 times
yesterday. Oh, my Lord. The pilot, which we, you know, in the pilot it was a
completed story, a non-completed story. We had an open ending on it as to
whether or not the princess was rescued. That's what makes for good pilots.
People want to see the next one. So we had to go back and reshoot the end of it
so we would have a complete episode. And it seems like I've been working on that
one forever. I mean, I wrote it two years ago, and I'm still working on it. As a
matter of fact, we're still going to continue to work on it. We're doing some
voiceover work on it next week. We're going to start to live with these things.
They become a part of your life. One of the challenges, one thing that I found
interesting in writing all these episodes was one of these self-imposed rules. I
wanted the heroes at every act break, which is four times an hour, to be in a
situation where they could not possibly survive. And then after the act break,
find a way to have them survive. And we've managed to do that, but I'll tell
you, that's a challenge. You start out trying to think of a situation that
somebody cannot get out of and then work backwards. That was a major time
consumer.
The cliffhanger. Yes, indeed. The cliffhanger. These guys run into a lot of
problems. There are snake-faced people, not only the wizards, but all these
mutants and monsters running around. And it's a rough life in Camarand. Sounds
like it. I wonder if they need all those special effects to get out of the hole.
When the show hits the air, you know how the...
I can't think of a good way to ask this one. When the show becomes popular, when
it hits the air and people go, oh, wow, you know, this new show was on. It's got
all this fantasy, fantastic stuff on it. What do you think the general public is
going to gravitate toward first? The people. No question about it. In
television, you're selling people. That's what it is. That's why certain actors
endure, you know, because they're comfortable to have in your living room. There
are certain television personalities, if you will, you know, like Bill Bixby and
James Garner and those people who go from one hit series to another. That's the
first thing that people respond to, is the people. And we have a varied and
interesting group.
After that, it's the writing. It's the question of the stories. Are the stories
engrossing? Do they hold your attention? Do you get bored? Do you go to sleep?
Do you go to the refrigerator or the bathroom? You have to be able to hold
people and entertain them. That's what this is all about. You know, it's a giant
game, but we're trying to entertain people. Starting with me.
Very good. All right.
So this is probably a pretty dumb question, but I can ask it anyway. How do you
know when you've got a good story idea?
Well, it fulfills certain requirements. You know it when you hear it, is all I
can tell you after doing this for 14 years. This year. It's a story that grabs
your attention. You start with one line, usually, with one sentence. You know,
what if there was a nuclear device planted in the castle? Well, that's one of
the scripts that we did. We started with a basic sentence. And that was
interesting to me, that you could have some huge explosive device hidden in the
good guy's castle that they can't find. And the ramifications of that, you know,
that can't be turned off. You can't stop it unless you get this key that's in a
place that's filled where one false move is a certain death. So the heroes
obviously have to go and get the key and then get back in time to shut the thing
off. You just know it. I mean, that was instantly a story that I wanted to do. I
think a good story idea begs the question, what happens then? That's when you
know you have a good story.
Okay, very good and very interesting.
I think I pretty well got it covered. Okay. I really wish you luck on your
project and everything. Well, thank you, David. And one of these days I hope to
get out there and do something or work for somebody one of these days if I can
ever figure out how to do it. Well, come on out. Give me a call. Okay. I'll do
that. Listen, give me an address where I can send you a copy of the tape. We'll
send you a copy of the finished tape as it goes on the air so you can hear what
it sounds like. Okay. Well, you can just send it to the Burbank Studios in
Burbank. It's 4000 Warner Boulevard. 4000 Warner Boulevard. Okay. In Burbank,
California. It'll get to me. Okay. I'll do that. All right, David. Listen, sir,
appreciate your time very much. Nice talking to you. Okay. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.